# Proposal

Our project idea is to create a database for Northeastern students that lists out which companies drug test, either during the interview process or throughout the duration of the co-op itself. One of our team members first thought of this project idea when they noticed that clubs/students will often share spreadsheets that record this information from past students who voluntarily share whether they were drug tested at their co-op. Other times, questions are posted on social media, usually anonymously, asking about whether a specific company drug tests. This uncertainty about what to expect creates unnecessary anxiety for students, particularly in relation to recreational drugs that are legal in Massachusetts, such as marijuana, but that could disqualify a candidate or result in termination on the job. Our goal is to make known the expectations of a company to the greatest extent possible, in order to help job candidates be best prepared.

Our team consists of 3 members: Kyle Smith, Jack Cardin, and Rebekah Johnson. To be more specific about our idea, we will be creating a website that serves as a database for drug testing information. Information is viewable with or without an account, but sign up is required for users who wish to contribute by making a post. Users can search for companies that exist within the database and view entries from other users, or create an entry for a company if it does not yet exist. An entry for a company consists of information such as: year/co-op cycle of student, the name of the company, whether they were drug tested, any consequences for a failed drug test, and whether it was a one-time test or a continuous process. A company entry, which has a unique id, is a table of posts from users. This way, all company information is in a centralized location, rather than having individual posts that a user would need to comb through and compile information from. To keep the most current information at the forefront of the company entry, user posts will be ordered so that the most recent interview/job periods are at the top, chronologically getting older as you go down the table. A user can also opt into receiving an email notification when data is added to a specific company. A post on the company entry will have a user id tied to it, but this will not be exposed on the frontend. These features are all goals for our MVP. At the bottom of this document, screenshots of a basic layout idea for this web application have been created in Figma and included.

Time permitting, there are also some “nice-to-have” features we would like to have on our website. One of these ideas is to have verification for posts. To become verified, users must upload some form of evidence that they worked at that company. Most likely, this would be in the form of a screenshot of a document that provides proof of employment. For Northeastern students, this could even be a simple screenshot of their co-op status. For the scope of the project, these submissions would be reviewed manually, as an AI would be too complex. If approved, a post would receive a checkmark to indicate verification, much like a verified user on Twitter or Instagram. Another feature we would like to implement would be email notifications that act as a networking tool of sorts. In their account settings, users who have created a post would be able to opt in to being connected with other users who have questions about their experience with that company. A user can opt out of this, either by choosing to remain anonymous on a post and ignoring any notifications or by choosing not to receive these communications overall. In addition to getting further clarification/information about a job, users who are connected would also be networking with one another in the process.

We expect that our users will be primarily college students, specifically Northeastern students to start. These students would likely be using our tool to help them with their co-op/internship search, to determine what companies they can expect to drug test versus not. This assumption is made based off of the various social media and shared spreadsheets we have seen that specifically answer this question. Splitting our users into categories, we will have viewers, who would like to find data on co-op/internship drug testing, and providers, who would like to contribute information based on their own experience. It should be acknowledged that a provider should not share this information if they made any sort of agreement with a company to keep that knowledge confidential - we will include a warning or notice of some sort addressing this. Similarly, we will be conscious of including a note that our website is not intended to encourage any kind of drug use, which may be prohibited for students of Northeastern University. 

The typical "User Story" we expect differs based on those two categories of users. For viewers, upon visiting the home page of the site, they have the option to register or login, however they do not have to. They will enter in the name of a company on a search bar, and upon trying to search, the app will display a list of potential matches. If the user sees a company in the match list that is indeed the one they are looking for, they will click on it and be directed forward to a company data page. There, they will be able to see all the entries that users have put in for that company, if any. There will also likely be some high level statistics viewable, such as "Percent Drug Tested." We would be able to draw such a statistic by making computations based on all the responses for that company. If this user had chosen to sign in, they could click a dedicated icon to request to be put in touch with the post author. We require sign in for this feature as we would need their email for contact purposes. We also will not limit the user with this feature - they may request as many of the responses as they want. To avoid spam, however, they would not be able to request to be put in contact with the author of the same post more than once. If they are done with the results from this company, they are free to search again with the search bar - kept either at the top of the UI, or that is accessible by returning to the home page. If however, the company they had searched for is not suggested in the initial matches for their query, there will be a button to create a new company post entry. This will prompt the user for the company's name and location, and upon submitting it will be added to the `companies` table in the database. From here, they will still be directed to the company's data page, however there will not be any data to view immediately. As a later nice-to-have feature, it might be worthwhile to include a “Request to merge tables” option, for when users notice duplicate company entries. Implementing this feature would depend on user data after pushing to production, though, as we may find it’s not actually a problem at all.

For contributors, the "User Story" is slightly different. First, upon visiting the site, they will have to login or register an account with their "@northeastern.edu" email address and a password. From there, they can search companies, or potentially create a company page, in the same way as viewers. Once they are on the company data page, all the same responses/data will be available to view. However, there will also be an option to fill out a form labeled "Add Entry," that will prompt them for all the data that goes into a response, and add it to the list of entries for that company. Submitting it will return them to the data page, whereby they can still add data if they so desire, however the app will reject entries that are Company/Co-op Cycle duplicates for the same cycle for that user. It is intended that users can put in entries for all their co-op experiences, even multiple at the same company, however, users should not be submitting entries for others. 

Our chosen third party API is the SendGrid by Twilio Email API. Our initial idea for an API was to find something that would help with the querying of names of companies. The idea being that when a user goes to search a company, their search can produce suggestions from a large and maintained list of companies/businesses that exist. We spent a large deal of time looking for an API that would support this. The most promising was LinkedIn's Developer API, which is free. However, the specific endpoint for "Searching Organizations" requires discrete developer approval, and we have been unable to obtain this approval thus far. Other APIs we looked into included those from Crunchbase, Indeed, and Glassdoor, all of which at one point offered basic/free tier APIs that have since been discontinued. There are some company data-centric APIs that would fit our use case, however all others we found were extremely expensive (>$100/mo), especially given the very small use case we have and the scope of our project. If we figure out a solution here, we do intend to implement the use of an API like this. As a possible method to help narrow the scope of a company on search, we could include a dropdown for the state the company is located in with the search bar. This does not satisfy the API requirement, but could help to mitigate the problem of accurately searching for companies if we are unable to use an API that queries the names of companies. However, for the time being, we have selected to pursue the use case of sending email notifications. As previously mentioned, this could either be for users to "Subscribe" to updates posted for a specific company, or to request to be put in touch with those who have posted their anonymous entries about a certain company (being put in touch with students who have previously done co-ops there). SendGrid offers a generous free tier of sending 100 emails/day, which is attractive. It also meets the requirements as it is an authenticated API, and we can interact with it purely from the Elixir Backend of our app. 
Implementing usage of the SendGrid API was one of the features we chose to experiment with. We successfully implemented a simple Phoenix Web app to send emails to one of the team members by clicking a button, while keeping the authentication token as an environment variable outside of the code. This is by no means a full implementation of our use case for the API (eventually we will want to email lists of users, based on the `email` column of the `users` table we will have). However, without the rest of the project constructed, this proves that it is 100% possible to use the SendGrid API from our Phoenix application, and we have worked out the semantics of doing so. If part of the experiment with the API can be considered also trying to find an API, we also definitely learned that it can be difficult to deal with out of date documentation on APIs that are either no longer accessible, or have changed significantly. 

The real time data we will be presenting includes real time updates to the company data pages, based on other users actively making changes. Or, possibly, if that proves to be less than totally useful in terms of implementation difficulty vs user benefit, we can have real time data displayed that indicates the number of contributors in total on the site. A nice-to-have for real time data would be including a timestamp on the company table posts which updates according to when the last user contribution was made. For example, a company table might read, “Updated five minutes ago.”

In terms of persistent data stored in our database, in addition to `users`, we will have tables for `companies` and `responses`. Companies will have at a minimum (besides IDs) `name` and `location` columns. `responses` will have more columns, but will include at a minimum `yes/no`, `co-op term`, `tested continuously`, and `comments` (optional). If `yes/no` is  `no`, all other columns should be null. There will also be foreign keys `user_id` and `company_id`, to relate responses to companies and users (many responses to one user, many responses to one company). `users` will have `email`, which will not be displayed but which is unique and can be used as an identifier.

For our “something neat,” we have chosen to integrate the Google Maps API into our project as a React component for each company post. This component’s purpose is to ensure that users are talking about the same co-op location in terms of physical geography as opposed to co-op location in A (in Boston) vs B (Los Angeles). We have chosen to add this feature as there is a high possibility that there could be an overlap or misunderstanding when referring to a large company with multiple locations (Apple, Spotify, Facebook, TJX, etc). To accomplish this, we will be using two sub APIs: Google Maps’ GeoLocation API,  and Google Maps’ Directions API. When creating a post about a specific company, a user will be prompted to input the company location on a mini-map component. This component will help indicate to other users where that co-op is located. When a user then goes to this post, the map component (upon permission to access a user’s current location), will show where the user is, where the company is, and directions on how to get there. If the user denies permission, it will only display the location of the company. Given the current work environment, a user would also be able to choose “Remote” for their location when creating a post. However, they would still be encouraged to choose the headquarters or where they would normally be in person, to help with company clarification. Although the idea of using location services in and of itself is not necessarily “unique”, when coupled with our project idea, it would be novel in its range of services. Users will not only be able to see if a company drug tests when they use this web application - they will also be able to learn about the hiring patterns of companies, gauge location distance, and network with past employees and candidates - all in one location. This speaks to our mission of helping candidates be as prepared as possible.

With respect to testing this component/experiment, we set out to make a trial component in a small React application. Our goal in doing this was to make sure that we have - at bare minimum - a component that will load, prompt a user to allow us to access their location services, and then jump to where said user is and display where they are on the map as well as their general surroundings. We managed to get this React component working, with the next steps to add being: let a user input where to place a marker (with respect to a co-op/company location), and then display directions to said location to the user. The process we undertook for this experiment was something that we had no prior experience in, so it took looking at several examples, reading through the documentation, and trial-and-error to get it working. In the process, we learned how to create API keys in Google Maps, how to navigate Google’s API documentation, and how to implement a Google Maps’ API in React.


Rough mockups of website layout link:  https://www.figma.com/file/KepJOVw1eFx988WMu9QHSl/blazeneu?node-id=0%3A1